# Linux Service Management Made Easy with systemd
<img src="covers/9781801811644.jpg" width="200"/>

## Chapter 1/18

Nothing to import.

## Chapter 2/18 <sup>(completed)</sup>

These components are optional, and some Linux distros don't use all of them
in a default configuration. Several of these components have configuration
files in the /etc/systemd/ directory

*****

just because you see a configuration file here for a particular systemd
component doesn't necessarily mean that that component is being used.

*****

We'll start by looking at the system.conf file, which sets the
configuration for the systemdinit process.

*****

/etc/systemd/system.conf

*****

for most of these files, you'll have to add the systemd- text string to the
front of the filename to find its man page. For example, to look at the man
page for the system.conf file, type the following:
man systemd-system.conf

*****

The /lib/systemd/system/ directory is the default location for unit files
that either come with the operating system or come with any packages that
you might install.

*****

There might be times when you'll either need to modify some of these unit
files or even create your own, but you won't do that in this directory.
Instead, you'll do that in the /etc/systemd/system/ directory. Any unit
files in this directory that have the same name as unit files in
/lib/systemd/system/ take precedence.

*****

You can read about unit files by typing the following: man systemd.unit.

*****

systemd.directives man page, which will direct you to the man page that
contains information about that directive.

*****

In the /lib/systemd/system directory, you'll see various types of unit
files that each perform a different function. Here's a list of

*****

service: These are the configuration files for services.

*****

socket: Sockets can either enable communication between different system
services or they can automatically wake up a sleeping service when it
receives a connection request.

*****

slice: Slice units are used when configuring cgroups.

*****

mount and automount: These contain mount point information for filesystems
that are controlled by systemd. Normally, they get created automatically,
so you shouldn't have to do too much with them.

*****

target: Target units are used during system startup, for grouping units and
for providing well-known synchronization points.

*****

timer: Timer units are for scheduling jobs that run on a schedule. They
replace the old cron system.

*****

path: Path units are for services that can be started via path-based
activation.

*****

swap: Swap units contain information about your swap partitions.That's
about it for the basic description of our unit files.

*****

Normally, we would search for a program's executable files in either a bin/
or an sbin/ directory, and you will indeed find some of the systemd utility
executable files there, but most of the systemd executables are found
instead in the /lib/systemd/ directory.

*****

For the most part, you won't directly interact with these files

*****

The systemctl utility is for controlling systemd

*****

list the active units that systemd currently has in memory

*****

systemctl list-units

*****

This is the automount section, which shows the various devices that have
been mounted. As you can see, this covers more than just storage devices.

*****

Next, we have the mount, path, and scope units

*****

Note here that there's a mount unit for each partition on your drive.

*****

At the bottom, you'll see a brief explanation of the status codes and a
short summary

*****

Use the --all option to also see units that are not active

*****

systemctl list-units --all

*****

You can also view specific types of units with the -t option.

*****

systemctl list-units -t service

*****

Now, let's say that we just want to see the services that are dead. We can
do that with the --state option

*****

systemctl list-units -t service --state=dead

*****

By running systemctl --state=help, you'll see a list of all of the
different states that you can view for the different unit types.

*****

you can also see the unit files that are installed on the system

*****

systemctl list-unit-files

*****

At the top, you see some mount files that are in a generated state. These
files live in the /run/systemd/units/ directory and are automatically
generated by systemd. To create these mount files, systemd reads the
/etc/fstab file every time you either boot the machine or manually reload
the fstab file.

*****

Unit files in a static state are ones that you can neither enable nor
disable. Rather, other units will call in these static units as
dependencies.

*****

units that are in an enabled state will automatically start upon booting
the machine, and units that are in a disabled state won't.

*****

To see if just one individual unit is either enabled or active, you can use
the is-enabled and is-active options with systemctl.

*****

With the show option, you can see the actual running configuration

*****

systemctl show

*****

Use the --property= option to view just one item, like so:

*****

systemctl show --property=DefaultLimitSIGPENDING

## Chapter 3/18
## Chapter 4/18
## Chapter 5/18
## Chapter 6/18
## Chapter 7/18
## Chapter 8/18
## Chapter 9/18
## Chapter 10/18
## Chapter 11/18
## Chapter 12/18
## Chapter 13/18
## Chapter 14/18
## Chapter 15/18
## Chapter 16/18
## Chapter 17/18
## Chapter 18/18
